# ABSTRACT: Tips for installing Pinto

package Pinto::Manual::Installing;

#------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# VERSION

#------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1;

__END__

=pod

=for stopwords Stratopan Perlbrew cpanm

=head1 SYNOPSIS

For the impatient (bash)...

  export PINTO_HOME=$HOME/opt/local/pinto
  export PATH=$PINTO_HOME/bin:$PATH
  cpanm -L $PINTO_HOME Pinto App::Pinto

And then possibly...

  echo export PINTO_HOME=\$HOME/opt/local/pinto >> ~/.bashrc
  echo export PATH=$PINTO_HOME/bin:$PATH >> ~/.bashrc

=head1 App::Pinto and Pinto (and Pinto::Remote)

The Pinto suite is divided into several different modules.  L<App::Pinto> is 
the front-end driver that provides the L<pinto> command-line application. 
L<Pinto> is the back-end library that does all the work.  These two modules
are shipped in separate distributions.  But to do anything useful, you will
need to install both of them.

There is also L<Pinto::Remote>, which is the back-end for using a remote 
repository (via L<Pinto::Server>) and can be installed instead of Pinto.  But
as of March 2013, Pinto::Remote and Pinto::Server are broken so I assume you
won't be using them.  I plan to fix those shorty and will update this 
documentation when they are released.

=head1 APPLICATION VERSUS LIBRARY

For most situations, Pinto is more like an I<application> than a I<library>.
It is a tool that you use to develop and deploy your code, but Pinto itself
is not I<part of> your code.  Pinto also has a lot of dependencies, some of 
which may conflict with or complicate your code.

=head1 INSTALLING AS AN APPLICATION

For the reasons above, I recommend installing Pinto as a stand-alone 
application in its own sandbox.  That way, it doesn't pollute your 
environment with its dependencies.  Nor will you pollute Pinto with changes to
your environment, so Pinto will function even when your other environment 
depencencies are broken. And hopefully, you can use Pinto to help fix whatever
broke!

=head2 Step 1: Install With cpanm

Fortunately, L<cpanm> makes it really easy to install things into sandboxes by 
using the C<--local-lib-contained> option (or C<-L> for short).  To install 
Pinto into your home directory (at <~/opt/local/pinto> for example) use this
command:

  cpanm -L ~/opt/local/pinto Pinto App::Pinto

=head2 Step 2: Set PINTO_HOME

When you've installed Pinto into a sandbox (that is, outside of your typical
perl library directories), you also need to set the C<PINTO_HOME> environment
variable so that the L<pinto> command can find it's libraries.  Since we
installed into F<~/opt/local/pinto> then that's where we set it:

  export PINTO_HOME=$HOME/opt/local/pinto

For convenience, you'll probably also want C<pinto> to be in your C<PATH>.
It lives in the C<bin> directory inside C<PINTO_HOME>:

  export PATH=$PINTO_HOME/bin:$PATH

To make these settings part of your normal shell environment, just add those
last two commands to F<~/.bashrc> or F<~/.cshrc> or whatever setup file is 
appropriate for your shell.

=head2 INSTALLING AS A LIBRARY

If you're going to be hacking on Pinto itself, or want to try building on 
the API directly, then you can install Pinto straight into your development
environment, just like you would do for any other module.

Just beware that Pinto has lots of dependencies.  And if you subsequently
upgrade any of those dependencies to something that breaks Pinto, then
you might find yourself in a pickle.  The whole point of Pinto is to
help you manage your dependencies, so if you break Pinto, it won't be able
to help you.

=head1 OTHER INSTALLATION OPTIONS 

Naturally, installation procedures will vary from one environment to another.
If this procedure doesn't work for you, or if you'd like to suggest a 
procedure for a different environment (e.g. Windows, Perlbrew, Strawberry
Perl, etc.), then please contact the author.  Your contributions would be
appreciated greatly.

=cut
